Add tutorial on deploying a Flow to a Dask cluster (#922)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/guide/tutorials/dask-cluster.md

---
sidebarDepth: 0
---
# Deployment: Dask

> How can you run a Prefect flow in a [distributed Dask cluster](https://distributed.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)?

## The Dask Executor

> Prefect exposes a suite of ["Executors"](../../api/unreleased/engine/executors.html) which represent the logic for how and where a Task should run (e.g., should it run in a subprocess? on a different computer?). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prefect exposes a suite of ["Executors"](../../api/unreleased/engine/executors.html) that represent the logic for how and where a Task should run (e.g., should it run in a subprocess? on a different computer?). 
```

```bash
> dask-scheduler
# Scheduler at: tcp://10.0.0.41:8786

# in new terminal windows
> dask-worker tcp://10.0.0.41:8786
> dask-worker tcp://10.0.0.41:8786
```

Once you have a cluster up and running, let's deploy a very basic flow that runs on this cluster. This example was repurposed from the [distributed documentation](https://distributed.readthedocs.io/en/latest/web.html#example-computation):

```python
from prefect import task, Flow
import datetime
import random
from time import sleep

@task
def inc(x):
    sleep(random.random() / 10)
    return x + 1

@task
def dec(x):
    sleep(random.random() / 10)
    return x - 1

@task
def add(x, y):
    sleep(random.random() / 10)
    return x + y

@task(name="sum")
def list_sum(arr):
    return sum(arr)

with Flow("dask-example") as flow:
    incs = inc.map(x=range(100))
    decs = dec.map(x=range(100))
    adds = add.map(x=incs, y=decs)
    total = list_sum(adds)
```

> So far, all we have done is define a flow which contains all the necessary information for how to run these tasks - none of our custom task code has been executed yet. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So far, all we have done is define a flow that contains all the necessary information for how to run these tasks - none of our custom task code has been executed yet. 
```

```python
def main():
    from prefect.schedules import IntervalSchedule

    every_minute = IntervalSchedule(start_date=datetime.datetime.utcnow(),     
                 					interval=datetime.timedelta(minutes=1))
    flow.schedule = every_minute
    flow.run() # runs this flow on its schedule

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

Notice that we didn't specify an executor in our call to `flow.run()`. This is because the default executor can be set via environment variable (for more information on how this works, see [Prefect's documentation](../core_concepts/configuration.html)). Supposing we save this in a file called `dask_flow.py`, we can now specify the executor and the Dask scheduler address as follows:

```bash
> export PREFECT__ENGINE__EXECUTOR__DEFAULT_CLASS="prefect.engine.executors.DaskExecutor"
> export PREFECT__ENGINE__EXECUTOR__DASK__ADDRESS="tcp://10.0.0.41:8786"

> python dask_flow.py
```

This flow will now run every minute on your local Dask cluster until you kill this process.

## Further steps

> Take this example to the next level by storing this flow in a Docker container and deploying it with Dask on Kubernetes using the excellent [dask-kubernetes](http://kubernetes.dask.org/en/latest/) project! Details are left as an exercise to the reader.

Reviewer: This line feels a little too much like homework ;)
```suggestion
Take this example to the next level by storing your flow in a Docker container and deploying it with Dask on Kubernetes using the excellent [dask-kubernetes](http://kubernetes.dask.org/en/latest/) project!
```

Author: Hahah this is a fair point, but I included this as a joke for all the math people out there... maybe if I include a winky face that will be more apparent?

Reviewer: I thought that might be it, haha - go for it :)

Author: Updated - I changed the wording from `this` to `your` per your suggestion as well.  One day you'll need to teach me how to properly use `which` and `that` haha

Reviewer: Ha - I don't know why this is the *one* grammar rule I can't unsee (because I'm far from perfect elsewhere). As it was explained to me:
- "which" introduces a phrase that isn't important to the sentence, but just provides further detail. A "which" phrase can usually be offset with commas.
- "that" introduces a phrase that is critical to the sentence

`The car that won the race is fast.`

A specific car, implied to be one of many, whose specific identity is indicated by the `that` phrase.

`The car, which won the race, is fast.`

A single car, with no implication of other cars.
